# Glossary
## array partitioning
Dividing a single logical array into multiple physical memories.
## bitstream
The conguration data used to program the functionality of an FPGA
## BRAM
A block RAM is a congurable random access memory that is embedded throughout an FPGA for data storage and communication.
## C/RTL cosimulation
The process of verifying an RTL design generated by HLS using testvectors captured from the C testbench.
## Compressed Row Storage
Compressed Row Storage is a technique for representing a sparse
matrix. It allows large matrices with a small number of elements to be stored and operated on eficiently.
## data rate
The frequency at which a task can process the input data. This is often expressed in bits/second and thus also depends on the size of the input data
## Discrete Fourier Transform
An transformation that takes a discrete signal and converts it to a freqeuncy-domain representation.
## EDA
Electronic design automation (EDA) are a set of software tools used to aid the hardware design process.
## Fast Fourier Transform
An optimized version of the Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) which requires fewer operations.
## FF
A flip-flop (FF) is a circuit that can store information. We typically think of it as storing one bit of data and are a fundamental building block for creating memories in digital circuits.
## finite impulse response
A common digital signal processing task that performs a convolution on the input signal with axed signal that is dened by its coeffcients. The FIR is often performed in hardware and can be efficiently implemented.
## FPGA
A field-programmable gate array (FPGA) is an integrated circuit that can be customized or programmed after it is manufactured ("in the field").
## HLS
High-level synthesis is a hardware design process that translates an algorithmic description (which is decoupled from the cycle to cycle behavior) into a register transfer level (RTL) hardware description language which species the exact behavior of the circuit on a cycle-by- cycle basis
## I/O block
An I/O block provides the interface between the FPGA fabric and the remainder of the system. I/O blocks can talk to memories (e.g., on-chip caches and off-chip DRAM, microprocessors (using AXI or other protocols), sensors, actuators, etc.
## IP core
An RTL-level component with well-dened interfaces enabling it to be incorporated into a larger design. Often used as a way of hiding the `intellectual property' from another company, hence the name.
## logic synthesis
The process of converting an glsrtl design into a netlist of device-level primitives.
## loop interchange
A code transformation that changes the order of loop operations. This transformation is often a useful approach to addressing recurrences in code.
## loop pipelining
Enabling multiple iterations of a loop to run concurrently sharing the same func-tional units.
## LUT
A lookup table (LUT) is a memory where the address signal are the inputs and the corresponding outputs are contained in the memory entries. It is a key computational component of moderneld-programmable gate array (FPGA)s.
## netlist
An intermediate design artifact consisting of device-level primitive elements and the connections between them. In FPGA designs, the primitive elements include lookup table (LUT)s, flip-flip (FF)s, and block RAM (BRAM)s.
## partial loop unrolling
A transformation where the body of a loop is replicated multiple times. This is often used in processor systems to reduce loop condition overhead or to provide opportunities for vectorization. In HLS, it can have a similar effect, enabling more operations from the same loop nest to be considered in scheduling. This can improve the performance of a design.
## place and route
The process of converting a netlist of device-level primitives into the conguration of a particular device.
## process
An individual component in a dataflow architecture
## processing element
A coarse-grained concurrently executing component in a design. In HLS, this is often used in the context of a data flow design.
## recurrence
A code structure that results in a feedback loop when implemented in a circuit. Recurrences limit the throughput of the circuit.
## ROM
A Read-only Memory is a memory which is initialized to a particular value and then read but never written. In many cases the storage for ROMs can be highly optimized because their value never changes.
## routing channel
A routing channel provides a exible set of connections between the FPGA programmable logic elements.
## RTL
Register-transfer level (RTL) is a hardware design abstraction which models a synchronous digital circuit using logical operations that occur between between hardware registers. It is common design entry for modern digital design
## slice
A (typically small) set of LUTs, FFs and multiplexors. These are often reported in FPGA resource utilization reports.
## sorting cell
An simple stateful component that forms part of a larger sorting network or algorithm. Commonly a cell performs a compare-and-swap operation between two elements.
## stable sort
A sorting algorithm that keeps different elements with the same sorting key in their original sequence after sorting.
## Static Single Assignment
Static Single Assignment is an intermediate representation in compilers where each variable is assigned only once. This form makes many common optimizations simpler to write.
## switchbox
A switchbox connects routing channels to provide a flesible routing structure for data routed between the programmable logic and I/O block.
## systolic array
An array of processing elements that coordinate to perform a more complex algorithm. Systolic arrays are usually designed so that each processing element encapsulates some local information and only communicates with its local neighbors. This often enables systolic arrays to easily scale to large problem sizes by increasing the size of the array.
## task
A fundamental atomic unit of behavior or high-level synthesis computation; this corresponds to a function invocation in high-level synthesis
## task pipelining
Being able to execute more than one task concurrently on the same accelerator in a pipelined fashion.
## task interval
The time between when one task starts and the next starts or the dierence between the start times of two consecutive tasks
## task latency
The time between when a task starts and when itnishes
